Previously on The Following:
Serial killer Joe Carroll
has escaped from prison.
Get some help now!
Things didn't end well with the
Bureau. but you caught Carroll.
- No one knows him like you.
- I'm not an agent.
He cut out his victim's
eyes as a nod to Poe.
He didn't just eviscerate female
students. he was making art.
Sarah was his unfinished work.
- He wanted to get the ending right.
- The point of Sarah's death was for you.
He's finding people.
They're his followers.
Prison guard. Gay neighbors. How
do they figure into your new plot?
- We know about the cult.
- I think of them as my friends.
What's my sequel about. Joe?
We're gonna write this together. Ryan.
even though you slept with my wife.
- She show you the letter?
- How does he know?
He doesn't. No one needs to.
Mom. What's going
on? It's Dad. isn't it?
- I didn't know what to say.
- If this book ends...
with anything other than
your death. plan on a rewrite.
Joey? Where is he? Joey?
Joey. where are you?
Where's Denise? Where's my son?
Sorry. didn't mean to scare you.
Is everything okay?
Extra patrol this evening.
I thought they caught
him. Saw it on the news.
Still. mind if I check
your doors and windows?
Sure.
Come on in. I think
everyone's asleep.
Why don't we start upstairs?
Do you want me to wake everyone?
No. we don't wanna do that.
Let's start with the room on the end.
Okay.
This is Jesse's room. She's out.
Yes. Jesse's room. I know.
I've studied this house a lot.
What is that?
I threw this up here earlier.
It's my kit. It's important
to have the right tools.
I've been planning
this for a long time.
Serial killer Joe Carroll
has been captured...
held at Richmond
Federal Detention Center.
As of early this
morning. Carroll's son...
Joey Matthews. and his nanny.
Denise Harris. have been missing.
An AMBER Alert is in effect
and we ask that anyone...
with any information as to their
whereabouts. please contact the FBI.
What's going on.
Ryan? Where's my son?
- We need to talk.
- Why is Joe doing this?
I don't understand how Denise is
involved. Are they going to hurt Joey?
I think she's your
nanny because of Joe.
- I think he put her here...
- No. that's impossible.
She's been Joey's nanny for two
years. She lives with me. I know her.
The accomplices that helped him
kill Sarah Fuller were there for years...
using false identities.
We think she did too.
I did a background check. I checked
her references. I have records.
- Can I see them?
- Yeah.
Traces of Zolpidem on the
counter. She drugged the guards.
- I bet the kid too.
- Carried him down to the garage.
Her car was found 10 minutes ago
in a parking lot 45 minutes from here.
Denise Harris from Alexandria. Her
address. her references. it's all there.
She talked about her mom
a lot. I guess they were close.
No dad in the picture.
Ever meet her friends
or overhear phone calls?
Her friends never came over.
She was shy. she kept to herself.
She read in her room a lot.
I can't be this blind. can I?
You cannot afford to
think like that. Understand?
Find my son.
Can't run from me!
I got you.
Look at this place.
Wow!
Whose house is this?
- Friend of a friend.
- It's okay that we're here?
Yeah.
Come on. let's check it out.
Can I call my mom now?
Honey. told you. your
mom told us not to call.
She doesn't want anyone
to know where we are.
Remember what I said?
- We're on an adventure.
- Mm-hmm.
Come on.
What's wrong with you?
- I hate kids.
- Stop it.
- I do. I hate talking to them. I hate looking...
- Not this kid. Okay?
You like this kid.
Just keep saying
it until it sticks.
I'd rather snap his neck.
I'm kidding.
- Is there a problem?
- Nope.
No. not here.
We're on an
adventure with a kid.
And I like kids.
Especially this kid.
What was that about?
It's been a long night.
He's tired.
It's good to have you back.
Developments from Richmond...
Virginia upon Sarah
Fuller's death...
as the search for young
Joey Matthews continues.
Serial killer Joe Carroll's son is
believed to have been abducted...
Team over there is covering ground search.
That group is on our prison guard. Jordy...
and we got Joey's search here.
This is Agent Mitchell.
Cyber Forensics.
From our D.C. office.
She's awesome.
- Nice to meet you.
- Where are we on the nanny?
I know Denise Harris is not from Alexandria
because Denise Harris does not exist.
We ID'd Sarah Fuller's
gay or not-so-gay neighbors.
Real names are Jacob
Wells and Paul Torres.
Jacob is from Lake Whitehurst.
Paul is from El Paso. Texas.
Where he's a computer consultant with
a history of fraud. Explains the fake IDs.
Where's Agent Mason?
I'd just get rid of
him. Send him home.
Can't. It's part of the story.
Then sideline him
before he cracks.
Because he will crack. You
weren't around 10 years ago. I lived it.
Well. this is awkward.
Hello. Mr. Hardy. I'm Agent
Debra Parker. I'm new to the party.
We were just. uh.
discussing you.
Parker's from Quantico.
She's taking lead.
- May I speak to Mr. Hardy privately...
- Where's Mason?
On her way back to Quantico.
She put a former agent in
a room with Joe Carroll...
and let him break three of his
fingers. Turns out that's a no-no.
- Three. huh?
- Turner thinks I should dismiss you.
He remembers you for who
you were 10 years ago. not now.
- And there's a difference?
- I hope so...
because Carroll has cast you as
a main character in his sequel...
so I can't just kick
you to the curb.
I'm sorry about Sarah Fuller.
I want a gun.
I'm not asking to be an agent.
but deputize me and give me a gun.
When was the last
time you had a drink?
Director Franklin asked me to be here
and if I'm going to stay. I want a gun.
I'll take it under advisement.
How's your heart? I see you
suffer from cardiomyopathy.
Is this the best use of our
time? There's a child missing.
So tell me about
Carroll's accomplices.
He used this prison guard to gain access
to the Internet to create a following.
- Like a cult.
- Let's not use that. People don't hear it well.
Call it what you want.
but people do his bidding.
Carroll mentioned a letter.
Claire Matthews received a letter a week
before Carroll's escape. It was personal.
- He questioned our relationship.
- As did the FBI eight years ago.
So now you're up to speed.
We got more bodies.
Blood smear. Jordy was
messy. left prints everywhere.
No attempt to
conceal his identity.
Victim number three.
She tried to run...
quick struggle. not
the case for the others.
Nine girls in the house at the time.
Some woke up when they heard screams...
and Jordy ran.
- He removed the eyes. Carroll's signature.
- Is Jordy playing Poe's greatest hits?
Playing an homage to Carroll.
Following in the footsteps of his hero.
It's ceremonial. The
work of an acolyte.
Let's not use that word
either. It implies the other word.
Let's say "Carroll's
accomplices."
Pick a word. any word. but
this is mind control at work.
- Why have his son kidnapped?
- A biblical offering.
They think of him as a son of
God. Something to be worshiped.
Or sacrificed.
Carroll knows where the kid is.
- He's not going to tell us.
- But he might tell his wife.
- He asked to see her.
- He's smarter than that.
- He's not going to tell her anything.
- Well. let's find out.
What do I say?
Is there anything
special I need to ask him?
Try to engage him about Joey.
Speak to his paternal instincts.
Make Joey important to him.
Are you sure you wanna do this?
I like your new place.
Me too. How was court today?
Moving fast. It
won't be long now.
I can't go anymore.
I can't look at him.
I don't ever want
to see him again.
You don't have to.
My hands are shaking.
My God. you still
have that effect on me.
- So beautiful. Always...
- Where's my son?
- Our son. Claire.
- Please. Joe. Where is he?
Heh. do you remember
when we went to Antigua?
We rented that little
cottage on the beach.
We were supposed to be there for a
few days. but it turned into a month.
I don't think we wore
clothes the entire time...
He's growing up so fast.
Joey. He's so brilliant.
Reading well beyond
his years. Melville. Twain.
He finished Robinson
Crusoe but he didn't like it.
This must be so hard for you.
You must feel so betrayed.
Again.
Come on. Claire. hang in there.
So you got my letter.
Is he in danger? Please. let
him be okay. Don't let him be hurt.
I'd like some answers
to my questions.
Tell me where Joey is first.
I asked you some very specific
questions. I'd like you to answer them.
- Yes.
- Yes. you what?
Ryan and I had an affair
for almost two months.
- After the trial.
- And the divorce.
Oh. yes. Of course. you
waited for the divorce.
Noble Claire. only a
proper little diddle will do.
Was it good? The sex?
Did your body quiver
to his every touch?
Yes. It did.
- We gotta get her out of there.
- Not yet.
- The last question?
- I don't know.
- You know the question.
- "I don't know" is my answer.
How could I love anyone
after you? You destroyed me.
You son of a bitch. Where's
my son? Where's Joey?
We need to get in there! Damn!
I will always love you.
You okay?
Yes. I'm sorry about
what I said in there.
Don't be.
- Got a car waiting...
- Is there any news on Joey?
As soon as I know
anything. I promise...
We're gonna find him. Claire.
Which room do I get?
I don't know. Let's see.
Whoa! It's just like
my room at home.
My Ninja Warrior!
And it's brand new!
- How cool is that?
- Super cool.
Can I call Mom now?
Honey. she asked us not
to call. We have to wait.
Why is my dad such a bad man?
Oh. honey.
Come here.
Maybe...
he's not so bad.
Maybe we just
don't understand him.
I'll tell you what.
Why don't you get settled and
check out all your new things?
Good and bad no longer existed.
It was all degrees of evil now.
Gwendolyn held his dying body...
as the storm raged on.
Death had finally arrived.
and it was glorious to the touch.
- Thank you.
- Thanks.
Thank you for coming. um...
Emma.
I loved your book. heh.
So you're the one.
Emma.
It's beautiful. All the imagery
is so vivid. I felt like I was there.
Oh.
You just made my day.
Um. may I just. um...
You have such lovely eyes. Emma.
Don't deprive us of them. Hmm?
Did she die? Gwendolyn?
When she went into the sea and
started swimming to the horizon?
Oh. you tell me.
I think she died. heh.
She was swimming toward
the horizon. toward the sun.
In death. she found hope.
Emma. hon. you almost done?
I'm ready. Mama.
So this is the fella
you came to see.
My. my. I thought all writers
were big-nosed and mushy.
- Not you.
- Mom. please. Let's go.
I'm giving the man a compliment.
No. sir. you do not look like a writer.
Did he sign your book?
Oh. yes. mustn't forget this.
"To Emma. Hopefully yours...
Joe."
So which is our room?
You mean your room.
Jacob and I are
taking the master.
You can't do that.
You're not gay
anymore. remember?
We were never gay. It's
just with the kid. is that cool?
Don't worry about it.
I tracked her through
the prison footage.
She used aliases very
similar to the gay guys.
Three years ago.
The guy beside her.
Jacob Wells. You connected them.
And get this. When I
did a search for Jacob...
Paul Torres.
They signed in together. You
were right. they're all in on this.
Find the first time the nanny visited
Carroll. Maybe she didn't use an alias.
2004. She signed
in as Emma Hill.
Okay. there's an Emma Hill in
Petersburg. Virginia. I have an address.
Petersburg is too close.
They'd never risk it.
Unless they're
hiding under our nose.
Go. take Weston. And Ryan.
Call ahead. have the local
authorities meet you there.
Nobody's home.
This is the place. Neighbors say they
haven't seen anybody in a long time.
Okay. you can't do that.
Nope. You can't do that.
I'm gonna check around back.
see if I can see through the window.
You shouldn't be here.
You know you're gonna die.
Only not today.
Good news: No dead puppies.
Bad news: I think it's time to use
that word nobody wants to use.
So we have a cult.
You sure this man wasn't Jordy?
Height. weight. nothing
matched. It was someone else.
We weren't supposed to find this
place. This is where they met and planned.
- I think Carroll...
- Carroll is using Poe's work as a religion.
He's speaking to people
through Gothic Romanticism.
There's a pathology to today's
Internet techno-bred minds.
It's created a new
vacancy in our humanity.
Find the ones with
additional disorders...
jackpot.
Enter a handsome. charismatic
man who can touch them...
make them feel their
lives for the first time.
He conditions them.
The only way to
truly live. is to kill.
Or some crap like that.
I run the Bureau's
alternative religion unit.
Did I not mention that?
Cults are my specialty.
- Hey. we online?
- Yeah.
- Is it secure?
- A little slow. but I got us into the board.
It's untraceable.
You check the news yet?
Yeah. we're everywhere. man.
That's the photo
that they pick of me?
I hate that picture.
Did you get it running?
What's up with Jordy?
He hasn't e-mailed yet. but they did
find three girls at the sorority house.
A score for the village idiot.
Paul. will you watch
Joey for a few minutes?
I can do it.
Be a good wingman. Paul.
Are you sure he's straight?
Because he is acting
like a jealous little bitch.
He just feels like
the third wheel.
And for a long time. it
was just me and him.
Now everything's changed.
Well. he needs to adjust.
This is what Joe wanted.
What do you think?
My mom says it makes
me look like a boy...
or a girl who doesn't like boys.
Your mother doesn't
understand you. She never has.
I like it very much.
Emma. It's beautiful.
What if I told you...
that I might know someone
else who might like it too?
A guy? You wanna set me up?
I think you'd like each other.
I don't know.
I love our visits. They
mean the world to me.
But I think you need
to make more friends.
Go out. have some fun.
Emma?
Hi.
Joe said you'd be my type.
What's your type?
Special.
I got eight. maybe nine
different handwritings.
I want analysis on each one.
- How many prints?
- Four clean. Several partial.
Our masked man
was living here too.
Unmade bed. Fresh food.
There's Internet upstairs.
He took his laptop and server.
Is it okay that I'm
happy about this?
I mean. I know divorce is not
a happy subject. but I'm happy.
Well. it's a new
chapter in your life.
Joe's been sentenced. He's gone.
I think you deserve some happy.
All right. well. here's to
being a single lady again.
That's depressing.
Kiss me.
Yeah. you heard
me. I'm single. so...
- Are you sure you want me to kiss you?
- I'm very sure. Been sure for a long time.
Well. if you're sure.
Unless. are you
sure? Because if...
I don't think first kisses are
supposed to have this much discussion.
- Takes the spontaneity out.
- Kind of does.
Did I just ruin our first kiss?
I think it can be salvaged.
So we got an update from Rick.
The FBI found Emma's house.
What do you mean they found
Emma's house? Was Jordy there?
No. Rick was. but he got
away. He wants Emma to call.
Why?
Because she's in
charge. remember?
I'm not trusted with
the important things.
That's not true. all right? She's
just been here for longer. that's all.
You guys need to stop this thing
that you got going. It's awkward.
Awkward for whom. man?
I'm fine. It's just. I don't
get what you see in her.
You're way out of
her league. man.
I think she's amazing.
So tell me. Jacob.
what do you do?
Currently. I am in between jobs.
Hmm.
Well. you're too pretty to work.
Mom.
I can't believe
you two are dating.
Your daughter is the most
amazing woman I know.
Hmm.
Hmm. so you like the no-fuss
plain Janes? That's sweet.
Most boys don't.
You did it.
You really did it.
Who are all these women?
All names of women in
Poe's life and work that died.
Female. She's been dead a while.
Mother?
Buried in the wall.
"Black Cat." "Cask
of Amontillado."
Classic Poe.
Call the Matthews' residence.
Make sure Claire Matthews is safe.
She's safe. The house is secure
and there's no sign of entry.
- Anything?
- Denise's real name is Emma Hill.
She's been visiting Joe in
prison. She is part of this...
but. no. we didn't find her.
Hey. fellas. Eyes up.
huh? You're on watch.
Coffee break. for God's sake.
All good.
Nine different
handwritings were found.
We matched all our suspects.
but five remain unidentified.
M.E. has confirmed that dead body
is Emma's mother. Sharon Cooper.
Still no ID on the masked man.
Jordy. a disorganized killer with a
low IQ. How does he just disappear?
What are those?
Blueprints.
They were on the wall
of the nanny's house.
That's the closet
they took her through.
That's the garage where
the officer was killed.
Wait a minute.
That's Claire's basement.
Run back! Cover!
Go. run back! Cover back!
Don't shoot. I'm unarmed.
It's you.
Finally. We've
been waiting for you.
Keep them out.
Keep everybody out.
Get back. Everyone
back. Get back!
Okay. Jordy.
They're gone.
It's just us.
Okay?
Can I shut the door?
That's good. You shut the door.
Take the gun from her head.
- I have to kill her.
- No. you don't.
And you have to watch.
Those are the rules.
Or. uh...
Or what?
Or you have to kill me.
I'm not sure I'm ready to die.
Jordy. nobody has to die.
Joe doesn't want her to die.
Yes. he does.
And he chose me to do
it. Not anyone else. me.
This is my chapter. And I
can write it any way I want to.
Okay. I'll tell you what.
Why don't we call him?
We can call him. We can ask him.
I have his number.
There's a phone. Right
over there by the bed.
Get an ambulance!
- The storm windows were padlocked.
- He had a key. The nanny gave it to him.
He was dressed as a cop.
He hid under one of the
a.c. units nobody knew about.
Except the nanny
who gave it to him.
- How were we supposed to know?
- It's your job.
Okay. listen up.
If you are not a federal agent. I want
you out of this house. Understand?
Come on. Let's go.
What's up?
She's a strong woman.
She has to be.
The prison guard's in surgery. He'll be
fine. We'll question him once he's conscious.
I wanna see Joe.
So you can break his other hand?
They don't trust
me alone with you.
How's the hand?
Have you slept?
You look tired.
It's important you
take care of yourself.
Preserve your strength.
I've made a few requests. Nothing
scandalous. just a couple of books.
Claire almost died tonight.
I like to read before bed.
Calms the mind. helps me sleep.
She almost died.
The woman you profess to love.
Yeah. but she didn't. I
was hoping you'd save her.
A heroic victory by the leading
man that cements the love story.
What if I hadn't
arrived in time?
Well. that's what makes
the story so unpredictable.
You gotta toughen up. Ryan.
You're dealing with depraved minds.
Sick and twisted.
No. Jordy was a mere puppy...
compared to some of the
games I have in store for you.
Why you doing this. Joe?
The challenge. Ryan...
accept it.
We've barely even started.
I have so many
surprises waiting for you.
And how long do you think you
can keep this up behind bars?
What's the end game?
That's a question the hero
must answer. I'm sorry. Ryan...
you really are going to have
to do some of the work yourself.
Jordy was the first step
in your return to form.
You saved the day.
How does it feel
to be victorious?
To kill the villain?
I didn't kill him.
Jordy's alive and well. He's
in a cell right down the hall.
That wasn't part
of the plan. was it?
No.
It doesn't matter.
He knows nothing.
Man's a half-wit.
Extremely short shelf life.
I'll be sure and tell him
that when I speak to him.
Sleep tight.
It's good.
Okay. thanks.
You don't have to stay here.
We can take you someplace else.
Where?
You should get some sleep.
Don't go.
I don't trust anyone but you.
I'm not going anywhere.
Call my editor.
See if you can't...
What the hell? Hey!